## 2007 Audi A3 2.0T FSI, BPY engine code, S-Line

### Previously completed maintenance and notes

- Cabin air filter changed
- Engine air filter changed

- Tires
  - Tire rotation completed, most likely the previous owner slacked on tire rotations
  - Tires pressure checked, 38 front, 35 rear, 60 spare tire. Missing tools
  - Tire treads look decent, manufactured 2019
- Windshield wipers replaced, washer pump not working
- Lubricate door hinges, wiper arms, door locks
- Brake fluid changed, pads checked
- Axle boots ok, tie rod boots ok, front strut dust boots torn or missing
- Replaced broken hood latch

### Issues:

- Need alignment, scheduled for 7/9/2022, $120
- Engine oil temps are lower than expected, $200 diagnosis
  - 170F City driving
  - 150-160F Highway driving
  - Expected 212F
- Coolant temp gauge drops below middle tick during driving, $400
  - CEL for P2181
  - I cleared the code to see temp the gauge working while driving
- Squeaky belt on cold start, 
- Driver's door does not unlock with key
- Driver's window switch is malfunctioning, sometimes does not roll up/down when you want it to
- Missing torx screw to fresh air intake

<u>Maintenance</u>

- High priority 
  - Spark plugs not changed. Have parts. Will DIY.
  - Fuel filter not changed, $25
  - Cold start misfiring, assuming that the car did not get any carbon cleaning. Would like to get the valves cleaned as soon as possible, $700
  - Spongy brakes, air in the brakes. Hissing noise in the cabin. Leaky vacuum line or brake booster? Brakes were bled previously with vacuum and did not find air bubbles in the lines. Fresh fluid 7/4/2022 with Volkswagen OEM DOT 4 fluid
  - Replace front sway bar links. Will DIY.
- Medium priority
  - Windshield washer fluid not coming out, suspected pump is not working. No sound when trying to turn on. Car was involved in a previous accident, new front right headlight, assuming that the washer pump was damaged in the process. Will DIY.
- Low priority
  - Missing tire jack
  - Sagging headliner, $550

